Digital elevation model (DEM) has been a significant dataset for many applications, including geomorphology (Guth, 2003; Stock et al., 2002), flood modelling (Ettritch et al 2018; Chen et al 2018), urban studies (Gamba et al., 2002), tsunami assessment (Blumberg et al., 2005), and many others. Formed as a grid based matrix structure that saves topological relations between data points (Patel et al 2016), the data could be performed as a group of pixel with specific topographic information (raster) or as a vector-based triangular irregular network (TIN). In general, there are numerous methods of attaining DEMs, i.e. radar interferometry (InSAR) (Zebker and Goldstein 1986; Ackermann 1999; Schiewe 2005), field survey, topographic maps, contour lines, and laser altimetry (Manuel 2004). With numerous sources to attain such data, there are several easy-to-use and open source datasets and methodologies which could be utilized. However, it needs to be put into a concern that DEMs are contingent upon errors as well, since the procedures are performed by mainly extracting elevation information and undertaking sequential processes in which the models have borne (6, 7). Freely available DEMs with relatively low errors include the recent released DEM Nasional (DEMNAS) (0.27-arcsecond spatial resolution) by the Geospatial Agency of Indonesia (BIG), Advanced Spaceborne Thermal Emission and Reflection Radiometer (ASTER) Global Digital Elevation Model (GDEM) V2 (1-arcsecond spatial resolution), and the Shuttle Radar Topography Mission 1-arcsecond (SRTM-1). 
DEMNAS is a recent released open source DEM that covers only the area of Indonesia, published by the Geospatial Agency of Indonesia (BIG) in the late 2018. DEMNAS was constructed with Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar (IFSAR) data (5 m resolution), TERRASAR-X (5 m resolution), and ALOS PALSAR (11.25 resolution), with additional resulted-masspoints from stereo-plotting. With such processes, the resolution performs a relatively high spatial resolution of 0.27 arcsecond. Whilst DEMNAS only provides DEM for Indonesia, SRTM provides the most complete and highest spatial resolution available for the whole Earth (Patel et al 2016). As part of the process, the DEM was derived through interferometric synthetic aperture radar (InSAR) (Farr et al 2007) by the United States National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA). In this research, the SRTM used was DEM with resolution of 30 m by 30 m at the Equator, which is equal to 1 arcsecond, i.e. SRTM-1. The SRTM-1 data is available online with 1° by 1° tiles (USGS 2019). Besides the two aforementioned DEMs, ASTER GDEM V2 is one of the free-of-charge DEMs available online. The GDEM V2 was released in October 2011 by NASA and the Ministry of Economy, Trade, and Industry (METI) of Japan. The data has an overall accuracy of 17 m at a 90% confidence level (ASTER GDEM Validation Team 2012), and ground resolution of 30 m x 30 m (1 arcsecond). The specifications of the three aforementioned DEMs are given below. 

In addition, besides open source DEMs, as an ease of use and flexible methodology, unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV) has been increasingly interesting for routine tasks in the application of geomatics (Gerke and Przybilla 2016). For this particular research, an additional small UAV was utilized. As stated by Nex and Remondino (2014), small UAVs are considered if the device had an overall weight of up to 25 kg. Small UAVs are easily deployed and mostly required slight training prior operating such devices (Gerke and Przybilla 2016); not forget to mention that the instrument is relatively low cost as well. 
It has become apparent that the free-of-charge and low cost factor of the aforementioned DEM sources are the main reason that it has been commonly applied for many applications. However, the different specifications of the data sources may result in different outputs as well, therefore, the evaluation of the appositeness from the four data sources is significantly required. There have been many publications that discuss the vertical accuracy of open source DEMs (including SRTM and ASTER GDEM) (Elkhrachy, 2018; Suwandana et al 2012; Patel et al 2016; Hu et al 2017). As part of the evaluation, there are several parameters that may affect the accuracy assessment of satellite based DEMs, i.e. error during data collection (Rodgriguez et al., 2006), grid spacing, and interpolation methodologies (Mukherjee et al., 2011). However, only few publications compared the open source DEMs with small UAVs (Vieira et al, 2018). Whilst DEMNAS is only available for the region of Indonesia and is relatively new to this date, there has been no scientific publications assessing such data. This paper shows the evaluation of height models using photogrammetric UAV (small drone), DEMNAS, ASTER GDEM V2, and SRTM-1 with the same vertical datum (World Geodetic System 1984) using GPS Real Time Kinematic (RTK). It could assist in understanding the best performances of different data sources using statistical tests as their comparison (root mean square error (RMSE), coefficient of determination (R2), and Nash–Sutcliffe model efficiency coefficient (NSE)). 
 
Agisoft LLC. 2016. Agisoft PhotoScan user manual: professional edition, version 1.2. 
Manuel, P., 2004. Inﬂuence of DEM interpolation methods in Drainage Analysis. GIS Hydro 04, Texas, USA.
Nikolakopoulos KG, Kamaratakis EK, Chrysoulakis N. SRTM vs ASTER elevation products. Comparison for two regions in Crete, Greece. Int J Remote Sens 2006;27(21):4819–38.
Chen CF, Liu FY, Li YY, Yan CQ, Liu GL. A robust interpolation method for constructing digital elevation models from remote sensing data. Geomorphology 2016;268:275–87.
Patel A., Katiyar S. K., and Prasad V. 2016. Performances evaluation of diﬀerent open source DEM using Diﬀerential Global Positioning System (DGPS). The Egyptian Journal of Remote Sensing and Space Sciences (2016) 19, 7–16
Zebker, H. A. and R. M. Goldstein, 1986. Topographic mapping from interferometric synthetic aperture radar observations. J. Geophys. Res. 91(B5): pp 4993-4999.
Ackermann, F., 1999. Airborne laser scanning--present status and future expectations. ISPRS Journal of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing 54(2-3): pp 64-67.
Schiewe, J., 2005. Status and future perspectives of the application potential of digital airborne sensor systems. International Journal of Applied Earth Observation and Geoinformation 6(3-4): pp 215-228.
Guth, P., 2003. Geomorphology of DEMs: quality assessment and scale effects. Paper No. 175–2. In: Proceedings of GSA, Seattle Annual Meeting, November 2–5, 2003.
Stock, J. D., Bellugi, D., Dietrich, W. E., Allen, D., 2002. Comparison of SRTM topography to USGS and high resolution laser altimetry topography in steep landscapes: Case studies from Oregon and California. In: Eos Trans. AGU, Fall Meet. Suppl., Abstract H21G–09, 2002, vol. 83(47).
Ettritch G, Hardy A, Bojang L, Cross D, Bunting P, Brewer P (2018) Enhancing digital elevation models for hydraulic modelling using flood frequency detection. J Remote Sens Environ 217, 506-522.
Chen H, Liang Q, Liu Y, Xie S (2018) Hydraulic correction method (HCM) to enhance the efficiency of SRTM DEM in flood modeling. J Hydrol 559, 56-70.
Gamba, P., Dell’Acqua, F., Houshmand, B., 2002. SRTM data characterization in urban areas. In: International Society for Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing Commission III, Symposium 2002, September 9–13, 2002, Graz, Austria 2004–2008.
Blumberg, D., Bach, D., Weissel, J., Gorokhovich, Y., Small, C., Balk, D., 2005. The 2004 Sumatra Tsunami Event: Contribution of SRTM Data to the Analysis of Devastation. The Shuttle Radar Topography Mission-Data Validation and Applications, Workshop, Reston, Virginia.
Gerke, M. and Przybilla, H.-J., 2016, Accuracy Analysis of Photogrammetric UAV Image Blocks: Influence of Onboard RTKGNSS and Cross Flight Patterns, Photogrammetrie – Fernerkundung – Geoinformation (PFG), 2016 (1), 17-30. DOI: 10.1127/pfg/2016/0284.
NEX, F. & REMONDINO, F., 2014: UAV for 3D mapping applications: a review. –  Applied Geomatics 6(1): 1–15. http://doi.org/10.1007/s12518-013-0120-x.
Farr T., Rosen P., Caro E., Crippen R., Duren R., Hensley S., Kobrick M., Paller M., Rodriguez E., Roth L., Seal D., Shaffer S., Shimada J., Umland J., Werner M., Oskin M., Burbank D. and Alsdorf D. 2007. The Shuttle Radar Topography Mission. AGU Journal, 45, 1–43; http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1029/2005RG000183/full (accessed: 04.01.2017).
USGS. 2019. Earth Explorer Distribution Download; http://earthexplorer.usgs.gov/distribution (accessed: 20.07.2019).

ASTER GDEM Validation Team. ASTER Global DEM Validation: Summary of Validation Results. Available online: http://www.ersdac.or.jp (accessed on 9 January 2012).

Elkhrachy, I. 2018. Vertical accuracy assessment for SRTM and ASTER Digital Elevation Models: A case study of Najran city, Saudi Arabia. Ain Shams Engineering Journal 9 (2018) 1807–1817. 

Suwandana, E., Kawamura, K., Sakuno, Y., Kustiyanto, E., Raharjo, B. 2012. Evaluation of ASTER GDEM2 in Comparison with GDEM1, SRTM DEM and Topographic-Map-Derived DEM Using Inundation Area Analysis and RTK-dGPS Data. Remote Sens. 2012, 4, 2419-2431. 

Hu Z, Peng J, Hou Y, Shan J. 2017. Evaluation of Recently Released Open Global Digital Elevation Models of Hubei, China. Remote Sens. 2017, 9, 262.

Rodgriguez, E., Morris, C., Belz, J., 2006. A global assessment of SRTM performance. Photogramm. Eng. Remote Sens. 72, 249–260.
Mukherjee, S., Garg, R.D., Mukherjee, S., 2011. Effect of systematic error and its derived attributes: a case study on Dehradun area using Cartosat-1 stereo data. Indian J. Landscape Sys. Ecol. Stud. 34 (1), 45–58.
Pix4D SA [internet]. 2017. Pix4Dmapper 4.1 user manual; [updated  Avaialble from: https://support.pix4d.com/hc/en-us/articles/204010419--iOS-Pix4Dcapture-Manual.
